CHAOS-5742 tkgi fault injection approach (#6995)
harness/developer-hub: docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/classification.md

---
title: Kubernetes-based fault classification
sidebar_position: 3
---
This topic describes the following:
- Classification of Kubernetes-based faults.
- How each category of fault works, the APIs they use, and examples.
    - [Pod faults](#pod-faults-microservices-based-faults)
    - [Node faults](#node-faults-infrastructure-based-faults)
    - [Cloud-based faults](#cloud-based-faults-aws-gcp-azure)
- [Flow of control in Kubernetes faults](#flow-of-control-in-kubernetes-based-faults)
- [Deployment modes](#deployment-modes-of-kubernetes-chaos-infrastructure)

HCE supports three categories of faults that you can execute using the Kubernetes chaos agent. They are listed below.
1. **Pod faults** (also known as microservices-based faults)
2. **Node faults** (also known as infrastructure-based faults)
3. **Cloud-based faults**

Each of these categories is discussed in detail below.

> Pod faults and node faults are native Kubernetes-based targets whereas cloud-based targets use chaos agent to remotely execute chaos on targets outside the cluster, such as cloud resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Pod faults and node faults are native Kubernetes-based targets whereas cloud-based targets use chaos agents to remotely execute chaos on targets outside the cluster, such as cloud resources.
```

:::tip
Kubernetes chaos agent also supports executing faults on remote targets that use mechanisms such as SSH, vCenter APIs, and so on against cloud APIs.
:::

## Pod faults (microservices-based faults)

These faults act on application [workloads]( https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/workloads/) (that include single-run pods) using the namespace, label selectors, and workload names as the filters to identify the target. You can define the blast radius of the fault through pod percentages (that is, the number of candidate pods to target in case multiple replicas fit the filter criteria) and container names.

> Some of these faults use purely the Kubernetes API. In such cases, a Go client in the chaos pod uses the in-cluster configuration through mounted serviceaccount token to carry out some kubernetes CRUD operations (for example, [pod delete](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-delete), [pod scale](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-autoscaler), [service load](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-io-stress), and so on).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some of these faults use purely the Kubernetes API. In such cases, a Go client in the chaos pod uses the in-cluster configuration through a mounted service account token to carry out some Kubernetes CRUD operations (for example, [pod delete](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-delete), [pod scale](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-autoscaler), [service load](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-io-stress), and so on).
```

The diagram below describes how the chaos fault is executed against microservices, that is, application workloads.

![](./static/generic-flow-3.png)

Described below are the flow of control in two chaos faults:

[DNS chaos fault](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-dns-error)

![](./static/dns-chaos-4.png)

[IO stress chaos fault](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/pod/pod-io-stress)

![](./static/ios-stress-5.png)

### Flow of control in Kubernetes-based faults

When you create a Kubernetes experiment with the target details, the fault tunables, and the probes, the following actions take place:
1. The respective Kubernetes chaos infrastructure (that is, the subscriber) fetches the task from the chaos control plane and creates the experiment custom resource on the cluster.
2. The cluster controllers parse the inputs from the experiment resource and launch transient pods to carry out the chaos business logic.

> 3. These transient chaos pods use a dedicated chaos serviceaccount (that is mapped to an appropriate role and security policy) to inject the fault processes against the target.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. These transient chaos pods use a dedicated chaos service account (that is mapped to an appropriate role and security policy) to inject the fault processes against the target.
```

Most of these faults use only the Kubernetes API.

## Cloud-based faults (AWS, GCP, Azure)

These faults disrupt the state of cloud resources, deprive resources, or manipulate the network settings of cloud resources. These cloud resources are either self-managed infrastructure components such as compute instances, storage volumes (for example, ec2 shutdown, ebs detach, and so on) or managed services such as ECS, RDS, Lambda, and so on (for example, task scale, rds failover, Lambda timeout, az-loss, and so on).

The transient chaos pods leverage the respective cloud provider SDK to inject chaos and consume cloud credentials (of account users that are mapped to an appropriate IAM role) through the Kubernetes secrets to authenticate their API requests.

The diagram below describes how a chaos fault is executed in cloud-based chaos faults.

![](./static/cloud-target-6.png)

## Deployment modes of Kubernetes chaos infrastructure

You can deploy the Kubernetes chaos infrastructure (or agent) in two modes:
1. **Cluster-scope**
2. **Namespace-scope**

### Cluster scope mode

> In this mode, the [subscriber](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#subscriber), [controllers](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#custom-controllers) and the [transient chaos pods](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#transient-chaos-pods) use the serviceaccounts that are mapped to ClusterRoles.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, the [subscriber](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#subscriber), [controllers](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#custom-controllers), and the [transient chaos pods](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#transient-chaos-pods) use the service accounts that are mapped to ClusterRoles.
```

This allows the following:

- The subscriber performs a cluster-wide asset discovery, that is, lists all the namespaces and the workloads within them.
- The chaos pods inject faults against workloads across namespaces.
- Perform [node faults](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/classification#node-faults-infrastructure-based-faults) type chaos experiments also (as the node object is a cluster-scoped resource) in addition to [pod faults](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/classification#pod-faults-microservices-based-faults) and [node faults](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/classification#node-faults-infrastructure-based-faults).

### Namespace scope mode

> In this mode, the [subscriber](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#subscriber), [controllers](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#custom-controllers) and the [transient chaos pods](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#transient-chaos-pods) use the serviceaccounts that are mapped to a NamespacedRole.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this mode, the [subscriber](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#subscriber), [controllers](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#custom-controllers) and the [transient chaos pods](/docs/chaos-engineering/chaos-faults/kubernetes/tkgi-deployment#transient-chaos-pods) use the service accounts that are mapped to a NamespacedRole.
```
